This file is a suppleement to README.txt. You may find it advantageous 
to read that file to get an idea of the structure and operation of 
BrailleBlaster.

BrailleBlaster was written using Java 5, because that was what was 
available. It can be compiled and run on Java 7. However, if compiled on 
Java 7 it will not run on Java 6. Similarly, if compiled on Java 6 it 
will not run on Java 5 or any previous version. The developers may move 
to Java 7 if it contains new usable features.

The best way to build BrailleBlaster is to clone the Mercurial 
reopsitory and then place native and jar files in their proper 
directories, as described below.

To build BrailleBlaster you must have Ant installed on your machine or 
an IDE that can execute an Ant build.xml file. In addition, you must 
copy the following .jar files into the directory dist/lib

The swt.jar for your platform
commons-cli-1.2.jar
commons-exec-1.1.jar
jliblouisutdml.jar (bindings)
xom.jar
(others as time goes on)

Then run ant. This will place brailleblaster.jar in the dist directory.

You must also compile a number of C and C++ programs and libraries for 
your platform. Be sure they compile into dist/native

liblouis
liblouisutdml
(Others as time goes on)

The compilation should place command-line toolls in the bin 
sibdirectory, libraries in the lib subdirectory and platform-independent 
files in the programData subdirectory. It may also produce a number of 
other subdirectories. These are not necessary for BrailleBlaster and 
should be deleted. The binary components may also be compiled into their 
default locations and the necessary parts copied into the appropriate 
BrailleBlaster locations.

Rename the dist directory brailleblaster and package it in a way 
suitable for your platform. you may want to place a shortcut with the 
path to brailleblaster.jar on your desktop.


